RHDEVDOCS-3279 Integrate Shared Resources Operator with Cluster Storage (#41898)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-using-a-shared-configmap-in-a-pod.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="persistent-storage-using-a-shared-configmap-in-a-pod_{context}"]

Reviewer: persistent-storage is actually misleading, as this is ephemeral storage ... can confuse future developers looking for content to contribute to

replace persistent with ephemeral

Author: @gabemontero Do you mean for this topic alone, or for all the topics in this PR? (They all use the `[id="persistent-storage` prefix.)

Author: I updated all the new files to begin with  `persistent-storage`

> = Using a shared configMap in a pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using a SharedConfigMap in a pod
```

[role="_abstract"]

.Prerequisites

* You created a `SharedConfigMap` object for the config map that you want to share across namespaces in the cluster.
* You have privileges to perform the following actions:

>   * Create pods and access instances of available `sharedconfigmaps.sharedresource.openshift.io`. In other words, you can run `oc get sharedconfigmaps` and get a non-empty list back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Create pods 
  * To discover which SharedConfigMaps are available for use, you can run `oc get sharedconfigmaps` and get a non-empty list back.
```

Author: Updated this and similar elsewhere. Thanks.

  * Determine if any of the service accounts available to you in your namespace are allowed to use a given `SharedConfigMap` resource. In other words, you can run `oc adm policy who-can use <identifier of specific SharedConfigMap>` to see if a service account in your namespace is listed.

>   * Establish, or ask someone to establish, the necessary role-based access control (RBAC) so that you can discover `SharedConfigMaps` resources and allow service accounts to use `SharedConfigMaps` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If either of the prior two steps could not satisfy your needs, establish, or ask someone to establish, the necessary role-based access control (RBAC) so that you can discover `SharedConfigMaps` resources and allow service accounts to use `SharedConfigMaps` resources.
```

Author: Updated here and similarly in modules/persistent-storage-using-a-sharedconfigmap-object-in-a-pod.adoc.
Thanks.

.Procedure

. Grant a given `ServiceAccount` RBAC permissions to use the `SharedConfigMap` resource in its pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc create role shared-resource-my-share --verb=use --resource=sharedconfigmaps.sharedresource.openshift.io --resource-name=my-share

Reviewer: see analogous comment on yaml vs. oc create role

oc create rolebinding shared-resource-my-share --role=shared-resource-my-share --serviceaccount=my-namespace:default
----

. Access the `SharedConfigMap` resource from a pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  serviceAccountName: default

# containers omitted …. Follow standard use of ‘volumeMounts’ for referencing your shared resource volume

    volumes:
    - name: my-csi-volume
      csi:

>         readOnly: true # editor note: eventually, we’ll have to add pointers to k8s atomic secret sync mechanism when we wire that up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        readOnly: true 
```

Author: Updated here and in modules/persistent-storage-using-a-shared-secret-in-a-pod.adoc
